README.md, before:


# Medicine QR Code Generator

A Django web application that allows users to input medicine data and generate unique QR codes containing the medicine information for better tracking and verification.

## Features

- **Medicine Data Input**: User-friendly form to enter medicine details (name, description, batch number, manufacturing date, expiry date, manufacturer, MRP, caution information)
- **QR Code Generation**: Dynamically create unique QR codes containing URLs to medicine details
- **Public Medicine Details**: Beautiful mobile-friendly pages that display when QR codes are scanned
- **Universal QR Scanning**: Works with any QR scanner app - users scan and get redirected to your website
- **Multilingual Support**: Real-time translation to 9 Indian languages (Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Punjabi)
- **Smart Translation**: Preserves medicine names and manufacturer names while translating descriptions and UI elements
- **Text-to-Speech**: Read medicine information aloud for accessibility in multiple languages
- **Offline Translation**: Core UI elements translate offline, descriptions use Google Translate when available
- **Expiry Warnings**: Visual alerts for expired medicines with multilingual warnings
- **Data Storage**: Save medicine data in SQLite database
- **QR Code Download**: Download QR codes as PNG files
- **Print Functionality**: Print QR codes for physical labeling
- **Responsive Design**: Modern Bootstrap-based UI that works on all devices
- **Admin Interface**: Django admin panel for managing medicines
- **Data Validation**: Form validation including expiry date checks
- **Test Interface**: Built-in QR code testing page for development

## Installation

1. **Clone or download the project**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PriyankaPrasad2006/MYLE.git
   cd medicine_qr_app
   ```

2. **Create virtual environment** (already done if using the provided setup)
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   ```

3. **Activate virtual environment**
   - Windows: `.venv\Scripts\activate`
   - macOS/Linux: `source .venv/bin/activate`

4. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Run migrations**
   ```bash
   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

6. **Create superuser** (optional)
   ```bash
   python manage.py createsuperuser
   ```

7. **Run development server**
   ```bash
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

8. **Access the application**
   - Main App: http://127.0.0.1:8000/
   - Admin Panel: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

## Usage

### Adding a New Medicine

1. Navigate to the home page
2. Click "Add New Medicine" or go to `/create/`
3. Fill in the required fields:
   - Medicine Name
   - Batch Number (must be unique)
   - Manufacturing Date
   - Expiry Date
   - Manufacturer
4. Click "Generate QR Code"
5. View the generated QR code with medicine details

### Managing Medicines

- **View All Medicines**: Click "View All" to see a list of all registered medicines
- **View QR Code**: Click the QR icon next to any medicine in the list
- **Download QR Code**: Click "Download QR Code" to save as PNG file
- **Print QR Code**: Use the print button for physical printing
- **Delete Medicine**: Click the trash icon to delete individual medicines
- **Delete All Medicines**: Use "Delete All" button to clear all medicines (with confirmation)

### QR Code Content

Each QR code contains a URL that links to the medicine details page:
```
http://yourdomain.com/medicine/[batch_number]/
```

When scanned with any QR scanner app (built into most phone cameras), users are automatically redirected to a beautiful, mobile-optimized page showing:
- Medicine name and description
- Batch number and manufacturer
- Manufacturing and expiry dates
- Price information
- Important cautions and warnings
- Text-to-speech functionality
- Expiry status with visual warnings

### How QR Scanning Works

1. **For End Users**: Simply point their phone camera at the QR code or use any QR scanner app
2. **Automatic Redirect**: The QR code contains a URL that opens in their web browser
3. **Beautiful Display**: Users see a professional, mobile-friendly page with all medicine details
4. **Accessibility Features**: Text-to-speech support and multilingual options
5. **Safety Checks**: Clear warnings for expired medicines

## Project Structure

```
medicine_qr_app/
├── manage.py
├── medicine_qr_app/          # Main project directory
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── asgi.py
│   ├── settings.py
│   ├── urls.py
│   └── wsgi.py
├── medicines/                # Django app for medicine functionalities
│   ├── migrations/
│   ├── templates/medicines/  # HTML templates
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── admin.py             # Admin configuration
│   ├── apps.py
│   ├── models.py            # Medicine model
│   ├── forms.py             # Medicine input form
│   ├── urls.py              # App-specific URLs
│   └── views.py             # Business logic
├── static/                  # Static files (CSS, JS, images)
├── media/                   # User uploads (auto-created)
├── .venv/                   # Virtual environment
├── requirements.txt         # Project dependencies
└── README.md               # This file
```

## Key Files

- **`medicines/models.py`**: Defines the Medicine model with QR data generation
- **`medicines/forms.py`**: Form handling with validation
- **`medicines/views.py`**: QR code generation and business logic
- **`medicines/templates/`**: HTML templates with Bootstrap styling
- **`requirements.txt`**: Project dependencies

## Dependencies

- **Django 5.1+**: Web framework
- **qrcode[pil] 7.0+**: QR code generation library
- **Pillow 10.0+**: Image processing (required by qrcode)
- **googletrans 4.0.0rc1**: Google Translate API for multilingual support
- **httpx, httpcore**: HTTP client libraries (required by googletrans)

## Multilingual Support

The application supports 10 languages with smart translation features:

### Supported Languages
- **English** (Default)
- **Hindi** (हिंदी)
- **Bengali** (বাংলা)
- **Tamil** (தமிழ்)
- **Telugu** (తెలుగు)
- **Marathi** (मराठी)
- **Gujarati** (ગુજરાતી)
- **Kannada** (ಕನ್ನಡ)
- **Malayalam** (മലയാളം)
- **Punjabi** (ਪੰਜਾਬੀ)

### Translation Features
- **Offline UI Translation**: Core interface elements translate instantly without internet
- **Google Translate Integration**: Medicine descriptions and cautions translated via Google Translate API
- **Smart Preservation**: Medicine names and manufacturer names always remain in original language
- **Text-to-Speech**: Supports speech synthesis in all languages
- **Fallback System**: If Google Translate fails, shows original text with translated UI

## Development

### Adding New Features

1. **Models**: Add new fields to `Medicine` model in `models.py`
2. **Forms**: Update `MedicineForm` in `forms.py`
3. **Views**: Add new views in `views.py`
4. **Templates**: Create/update HTML templates
5. **URLs**: Add URL patterns in `urls.py`

### Database Operations

```bash
# Create migrations after model changes
python manage.py makemigrations

# Apply migrations
python manage.py migrate

# Access Django shell
python manage.py shell
```

### Admin Interface

Access the Django admin at `/admin/` to:
- View all medicines
- Add/edit/delete medicines directly
- Export data
- Manage users

## Security Notes

- Change `SECRET_KEY` in production
- Set `DEBUG = False` in production
- Configure `ALLOWED_HOSTS` for production
- Use environment variables for sensitive settings
- Set up proper database (PostgreSQL/MySQL) for production

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **QR Code not displaying**: Check that Pillow is properly installed
2. **Form validation errors**: Ensure expiry date is after manufacturing date
3. **Batch number conflicts**: Each batch number must be unique
4. **Static files not loading**: Run `python manage.py collectstatic`
5. **"View All" button not working**:
   - Check that the server is running on <http://127.0.0.1:8000/>
   - Ensure sample data exists (run `python manage.py create_sample_data`)
   - Verify URL configuration in `medicines/urls.py`
6. **Empty medicine list**: Create sample data with `python manage.py create_sample_data`

### Testing the Application

1. **Create sample data**:

   ```bash
   # Create sample data (clears existing data first)
   python manage.py create_sample_data
   
   # Create sample data without clearing existing data
   python manage.py create_sample_data --clear
   
   # Clear all medicines
   python manage.py clear_medicines
   
   # Force clear without confirmation
   python manage.py clear_medicines --force
   ```

2. **Access different pages**:
   - Home: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/>
   - Add Medicine: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/create/>
   - View All Medicines: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/list/>
   - Admin Panel: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/>

### Debug Mode

If you encounter issues, check:

- Console logs in browser developer tools
- Django logs in terminal
- Database content via admin panel

## Future Enhancements

- User authentication and authorization
- QR code scanning for verification
- Bulk medicine import/export
- API endpoints for mobile apps
- Advanced reporting and analytics
- Email notifications for expiring medicines
- Barcode generation support

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

## Support

For issues and questions, please check the Django documentation or create an issue in the project repository.
#

Commit message:

Add Docker support with Dockerfile, .dockerignore, and environment configuration; enhance README for deployment instructions

README.md, after:


# Medicine QR Code Generator

A Django web application that allows users to input medicine data and generate unique QR codes containing the medicine information for better tracking and verification.

## Features

- **Medicine Data Input**: User-friendly form to enter medicine details (name, description, batch number, manufacturing date, expiry date, manufacturer, MRP, caution information)
- **QR Code Generation**: Dynamically create unique QR codes containing URLs to medicine details
- **Public Medicine Details**: Beautiful mobile-friendly pages that display when QR codes are scanned
- **Universal QR Scanning**: Works with any QR scanner app - users scan and get redirected to your website
- **Multilingual Support**: Real-time translation to 9 Indian languages (Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Punjabi)
- **Smart Translation**: Preserves medicine names and manufacturer names while translating descriptions and UI elements
- **Text-to-Speech**: Read medicine information aloud for accessibility in multiple languages
- **Offline Translation**: Core UI elements translate offline, descriptions use Google Translate when available
- **Expiry Warnings**: Visual alerts for expired medicines with multilingual warnings
- **Data Storage**: Save medicine data in SQLite database
- **QR Code Download**: Download QR codes as PNG files
- **Print Functionality**: Print QR codes for physical labeling
- **Responsive Design**: Modern Bootstrap-based UI that works on all devices
- **Admin Interface**: Django admin panel for managing medicines
- **Data Validation**: Form validation including expiry date checks
- **Test Interface**: Built-in QR code testing page for development

## Installation

1. **Clone or download the project**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PriyankaPrasad2006/MYLE.git
   cd medicine_qr_app
   ```

2. **Create virtual environment** (already done if using the provided setup)
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   ```

3. **Activate virtual environment**
   - Windows: `.venv\Scripts\activate`
   - macOS/Linux: `source .venv/bin/activate`

4. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Run migrations**
   ```bash
   python manage.py makemigrations
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

6. **Create superuser** (optional)
   ```bash
   python manage.py createsuperuser
   ```

7. **Run development server**
   ```bash
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

8. **Access the application**
   - Main App: http://127.0.0.1:8000/
   - Admin Panel: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

## Usage

### Adding a New Medicine

1. Navigate to the home page
2. Click "Add New Medicine" or go to `/create/`
3. Fill in the required fields:
   - Medicine Name
   - Batch Number (must be unique)
   - Manufacturing Date
   - Expiry Date
   - Manufacturer
4. Click "Generate QR Code"
5. View the generated QR code with medicine details

### Managing Medicines

- **View All Medicines**: Click "View All" to see a list of all registered medicines
- **View QR Code**: Click the QR icon next to any medicine in the list
- **Download QR Code**: Click "Download QR Code" to save as PNG file
- **Print QR Code**: Use the print button for physical printing
- **Delete Medicine**: Click the trash icon to delete individual medicines
- **Delete All Medicines**: Use "Delete All" button to clear all medicines (with confirmation)

### QR Code Content

Each QR code contains a URL that links to the medicine details page:
```
http://yourdomain.com/medicine/[batch_number]/
```

When scanned with any QR scanner app (built into most phone cameras), users are automatically redirected to a beautiful, mobile-optimized page showing:
- Medicine name and description
- Batch number and manufacturer
- Manufacturing and expiry dates
- Price information
- Important cautions and warnings
- Text-to-speech functionality
- Expiry status with visual warnings

### How QR Scanning Works

1. **For End Users**: Simply point their phone camera at the QR code or use any QR scanner app
2. **Automatic Redirect**: The QR code contains a URL that opens in their web browser
3. **Beautiful Display**: Users see a professional, mobile-friendly page with all medicine details
4. **Accessibility Features**: Text-to-speech support and multilingual options
5. **Safety Checks**: Clear warnings for expired medicines

## Project Structure

```
medicine_qr_app/
├── manage.py
├── medicine_qr_app/          # Main project directory
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── asgi.py
│   ├── settings.py
│   ├── urls.py
│   └── wsgi.py
├── medicines/                # Django app for medicine functionalities
│   ├── migrations/
│   ├── templates/medicines/  # HTML templates
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── admin.py             # Admin configuration
│   ├── apps.py
│   ├── models.py            # Medicine model
│   ├── forms.py             # Medicine input form
│   ├── urls.py              # App-specific URLs
│   └── views.py             # Business logic
├── static/                  # Static files (CSS, JS, images)
├── media/                   # User uploads (auto-created)
├── .venv/                   # Virtual environment
├── requirements.txt         # Project dependencies
└── README.md               # This file
```

## Key Files

- **`medicines/models.py`**: Defines the Medicine model with QR data generation
- **`medicines/forms.py`**: Form handling with validation
- **`medicines/views.py`**: QR code generation and business logic
- **`medicines/templates/`**: HTML templates with Bootstrap styling
- **`requirements.txt`**: Project dependencies

## Dependencies

- **Django 5.1+**: Web framework
- **qrcode[pil] 7.0+**: QR code generation library
- **Pillow 10.0+**: Image processing (required by qrcode)
- **googletrans 4.0.0rc1**: Google Translate API for multilingual support
- **httpx, httpcore**: HTTP client libraries (required by googletrans)

## Multilingual Support

The application supports 10 languages with smart translation features:

### Supported Languages
- **English** (Default)
- **Hindi** (हिंदी)
- **Bengali** (বাংলা)
- **Tamil** (தமிழ்)
- **Telugu** (తెలుగు)
- **Marathi** (मराठी)
- **Gujarati** (ગુજરાતી)
- **Kannada** (ಕನ್ನಡ)
- **Malayalam** (മലയാളം)
- **Punjabi** (ਪੰਜਾਬੀ)

### Translation Features
- **Offline UI Translation**: Core interface elements translate instantly without internet
- **Google Translate Integration**: Medicine descriptions and cautions translated via Google Translate API
- **Smart Preservation**: Medicine names and manufacturer names always remain in original language
- **Text-to-Speech**: Supports speech synthesis in all languages
- **Fallback System**: If Google Translate fails, shows original text with translated UI

## Development

### Adding New Features

1. **Models**: Add new fields to `Medicine` model in `models.py`
2. **Forms**: Update `MedicineForm` in `forms.py`
3. **Views**: Add new views in `views.py`
4. **Templates**: Create/update HTML templates
5. **URLs**: Add URL patterns in `urls.py`

### Database Operations

```bash
# Create migrations after model changes
python manage.py makemigrations

# Apply migrations
python manage.py migrate

# Access Django shell
python manage.py shell
```

### Admin Interface

Access the Django admin at `/admin/` to:
- View all medicines
- Add/edit/delete medicines directly
- Export data
- Manage users

## Security Notes

- Change `SECRET_KEY` in production
- Set `DEBUG = False` in production
- Configure `ALLOWED_HOSTS` for production
- Use environment variables for sensitive settings
- Set up proper database (PostgreSQL/MySQL) for production

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **QR Code not displaying**: Check that Pillow is properly installed
2. **Form validation errors**: Ensure expiry date is after manufacturing date
3. **Batch number conflicts**: Each batch number must be unique
4. **Static files not loading**: Run `python manage.py collectstatic`
5. **"View All" button not working**:
   - Check that the server is running on <http://127.0.0.1:8000/>
   - Ensure sample data exists (run `python manage.py create_sample_data`)
   - Verify URL configuration in `medicines/urls.py`
6. **Empty medicine list**: Create sample data with `python manage.py create_sample_data`

### Testing the Application

1. **Create sample data**:

   ```bash
   # Create sample data (clears existing data first)
   python manage.py create_sample_data
   
   # Create sample data without clearing existing data
   python manage.py create_sample_data --clear
   
   # Clear all medicines
   python manage.py clear_medicines
   
   # Force clear without confirmation
   python manage.py clear_medicines --force
   ```

2. **Access different pages**:
   - Home: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/>
   - Add Medicine: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/create/>
   - View All Medicines: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/list/>
   - Admin Panel: <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/>

### Debug Mode

If you encounter issues, check:

- Console logs in browser developer tools
- Django logs in terminal
- Database content via admin panel

## Future Enhancements

- User authentication and authorization
- QR code scanning for verification
- Bulk medicine import/export
- API endpoints for mobile apps
- Advanced reporting and analytics
- Email notifications for expiring medicines
- Barcode generation support

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

## Support

For issues and questions, please check the Django documentation or create an issue in the project repository.

## Deploying on Coolify (VPS)

Coolify works well with the included `Dockerfile`. Quick setup:

1. **Repository & build**
   - In Coolify, create a new application, connect this repo, choose **Dockerfile** build pack.
   - Base directory: `/` (repo root). Publish directory: leave empty. Exposed port: `8000`.
2. **Environment variables** (add via Coolify UI)
   - `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY` (required, keep it random and private)
   - `DJANGO_DEBUG=False`
   - `DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS=your-domain.com,www.your-domain.com`
   - `DJANGO_CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS=https://your-domain.com,https://www.your-domain.com`
   - Optional: `DATABASE_URL` (Postgres URL). If omitted, SQLite is used inside the container.
3. **Persistent storage**
   - Add volumes so data survives redeploys: mount `/app/db.sqlite3` and `/app/media` (if you expect uploads).
4. **Build & run**
   - The Dockerfile installs deps, collects static files, and sets `CMD` to `python manage.py migrate && gunicorn medicine_qr_app.wsgi:application --bind 0.0.0.0:8000`.
   - No extra build/start commands needed in Coolify unless you want to override.
5. **Domain**
   - Point your domain at the Coolify-provided IP, set the domain in the app, and ensure it matches the `ALLOWED_HOSTS` and `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` values.

Troubleshooting tips:
- If static files 404, ensure `collectstatic` ran (it runs in the Docker build) and that `DEBUG` is `False` with WhiteNoise enabled.
- If you change domains, update `DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS` and `DJANGO_CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` then redeploy.
- For Postgres, set `DATABASE_URL` and ensure the database is reachable from the container.
#
